
# DeStress Application

 With Mental Health becoming a prevalent concern globally, it is important to find innovative and productive ways to tackle this, and what better way to do this than to creatively make a virtual stress ball app, which is inspired by the therapeutic nature of its physical counterpart. Important findings about the power of using colours to control emotions, and the use of minimal app designs to promote positive user experience, greatly contributed to the design of the app and surveys. Additional information about the significance of sound in the system, and how prevalent negative mental health is in individuals, was discovered during the first survey.

 The information gathered was then used to optimally design the Destress application. While developing the app, a lot of problems arose, although most of them were solved and the app was completed. Then, the app was tested and managed to pass most tests, and most importantly had a great user evaluation, thus successfully achieving its purpose of promoting positive mental well-being.

 With the goal of finding an optimal way to create an app that focuses on positively impacting the mental well-being of individuals, a thorough research was conducted to make sure that it was designed properly for this purpose. Key findings about the power of using the right colours to evoke certain feelings from users, and doing this in conjunction with a simplistic app design to reduce stress, was greatly emphasised in order to create an optimal user experience and to complete the purpose of the project. Also, findings about red and yellow discouraged their use due to their negative associations with stress and anxiety.

 However, even though these colours and other findings were an essential basis in the creation of the Destress application, it was still necessary to prioritise the data from ethical surveys to see if they would back the findings or cause more confusion. To no surprise, the results from the survey were able to confirm some of the research findings, and even emphasise how necessary the app is, as it was shown that over 80% of the respondents were struggling with stress and almost 70% of them were facing anxiety (see Appendix B). Most respondents additionally recommended nice/calming music, so this was also prioritised in the design of the app (see Appendix B).

 As mentioned before, the recommendation was added to the design of the app, although it is important to note that the whole design basis originated from the data collected from the key findings of the research and the surveys. A minimalistic app design with three views was decided on, which would contain three views: an introductory animation view, a main view containing just the beautiful stress ball itself and a button to navigate to the next view, and a settings view that would change the functionality or design of the main view.

 When it came to the actual development process of the app, certain objectives largely contributed to the completion and quality of it. Also, necessary data structures like arrays, stacks and a tree-like DOM structure, were greatly effective in implementing the design ideas, together with beneficial and imported libraries. Additionally, a variety of background colours and sounds were programmed into the system, as recommended. Then, the app was tested after completion to uncover bugs. Black box and White box testing were used as the main testing methods, and then additional testing methods like unit testing, integration testing and acceptance testing (from user evaluation) were used as supportive testing methods. Successfully, the system managed to pass most tests and evaluations.

 Even though the Destress application managed to achieve its main requirement, and a number of things went smoothly with it, there were still some problems that were encountered during the development process. A lot of issues like the ball not morphing properly and the sound not loading were solved, but certain issues with the perfection of the ball morphing and the background colour not transitioning properly could not be solved. However, these unsolvable problems did not negatively affect the overall evaluation of the app (see Appendix D).


